+++
title = "Learning Scala"
date = 2016-05-15

[taxonomies]
tag = ["Scala"]

[extra]
id = "blog-single"
+++

Learning a new technology/language is difficult, and it can seem daunting when getting
started. This is the third time in 3 years that I have set out to learn something new and
become proficient, so I wanted to share my experience on how I learned Scala and built
SubwayTunes. <!-- more -->

The code if now available on [github](https://github.com/toidiu/SubwayTunes).

## Cheatsheet
Some of the technology behind SubwayTunes includes the Play Framework, ReactiveMongo,
Docker, AWS Elastic Beanstalk, AWS S3.

Here is a list of resources I used to help me learn Scala and Play Framework in no
particular order:

* [Scala for the Impatient](http://www.horstmann.com/scala/index.html) for basic Scala
  syntax.
* [Functional Programming in
  Scala](https://www.manning.com/books/functional-programming-in-scala) and the
  accompanying [solutions](https://github.com/toidiu/fpinscala). A great book that uses
  exercises to re-enforce concepts in Scala. I recommend reading as much of this book as
  possible and attempting the exercises yourself first.
* [Ebook](http://danielwestheide.com/scala/neophytes.html) - amazingly through and yet
  concise. Great reference for all levels.
* [Look at other's
  code](https://github.com/toidiu/react-vs-shared-state-inventory/tree/master/reactive-inventory)
  - don't worry about all the setup and just `git clone` and use `activator run` to
  launch.
* [Coursera class](https://www.coursera.org/course/progfun) taught by the master. Coursera
  classes are not for me but the course offers great sources and I do recommend it.
* [NYC Scala Meetup](http://www.meetup.com/ny-scala/)

## Why?
Once a doctor graduates from Medical school, he or she has the responsibility to stay up
to date with new developments in the field, by reading publications and attending
conferences. Similarly, as software engineers, I believe it is our responsibility to stay
current with new technology and best practices. You wouldn't build a Flash app for a
website, would you?

## Idea
When attempting to learn a new technology, the biggest barrier you will face is
frustration and becoming overwhelmed. For this reason, it is important to supplement your
technical learning with practical application. Doing so will allow you to switch contexts
if one task becomes too tedious and help mitigate your frustration.

In my experience, having a tangible project is critical for successful follow-through.
Better yet, choose an idea that is relevant to your daily life or your interests. Maybe
you hate waking up in the morning...so make an alarm app.

## Play
Spend some time setting up your environment and then write some code. There are plenty of
resources to help you get started and write something more significant than a "Hello
World!". Find a sample project on Github and get it to build. Then start tinkering with
it.

The idea behind starting with a sample is to see a finished product in action and whet
your appetite. You may not be able to accomplish much else, but thats ok.

## Meet
Imagine wanting to be a chef and having Alton Brown show you how to perfect a recipe that
he tried last week. That is the power of a good Meetup: being able to speak with some of
the top professionals in the industry. Not only are you exposing yourself to the
opportunity to network but also absorbing the jargon and best practices relevant to your
project.

The biggest risk of attempting to learn something by yourself, is to waste time learning
the wrong thing or just figuring out what to learn in the first place. A book can be a
great resource, but it can quickly become outdated, especially in the field of software.
My advice is to attend a few Meetups on the topic and see if one or two stand out. Then
attend regularly for some time. I find myself feeling more motivated each time I attend a
Meetup.

## Ask
When at a Meetup, don't simply go for the organized talks. Ask people for recommendations
on relevant books, tutorials, videos, conferences, and even other Meetups. Chances are,
the people you meet have been in the same position as you are and can help you save weeks
of guessing. Remember, you want to avoid wasting time as much as possible.

## Repeat
Expect to get stuck. It takes years to be an expert at any technology. The goal is not to
be perfect, but to keep stepping forward. You are bound to stumble across the finish like
eventually! Switch between expanding your technical knowledge and project implementation.
After gaining the preliminary knowledge, try your best to break your learning into
discrete steps so that each new step helps you accomplish a piece of your project.

You might find yourself getting frustrated trying to achieve perfect implementation. Stop
yourself. Just write something that works. I guarantee that regardless of what you write,
it will change 2-3 times before the end of the project anyway.
